Hello everybody.
Welcome to another session of limitless calculus.
Today we're going to cover graphs of functions.
Now the graph of a function is a very visual representation of how the function behaves.
So I'll put that here a graph is a visual
representation of a function.
So for example let's say that we would like to graph this function f of x equals x plus 5.
All right.
So we want to get the graph of that to try and get the graph of this function.
Let's build a table and pick a couple of points so that we can just plug them in into our graph.
So we have a table of x and y.
So let me pick for example.
Half of one is going to give me one plus five.
You call six.
So that's when X is 1.
Why is 6.
Let me pick another point.
Negative 2.
So we have negative two plus five.
And again if you owe three dollars and you pay five back then you are in positive three.
So for negative two we have three and let's do one more of 0.
So that's going to be zero plus five.
We're just going to give us five.
OK.
All right.
Our third point is 0 5.
So now we have three points for the graph.
How do we graph it exactly.
Remember that to graph functions we do it in something called the Cartesian plane
and the Cartesian plane is made up of two lines one horizontal representing the input and one vertical
representing the output.
So it's going to look something like this.
OK so our horizontal line represents X enter a vertical line represent why.
And we could have points composed of an x and y.
For example if we take our first point which is 1:06 the x values 1 the y value is 6.
So we start here at 0 0 0 remember that for the axes.
If you move to the right it's positive.
And if you move to the left it's negative so ever x value is 1.
We move one to the right.
So we're over here this is one.
And then for y values this one is 6.
And in general if it's positive it goes up and if it's negative it goes down.
So the point 1 6 will be one to the right for X and six up for y.
So that's 1 2 3 4 5 6.
And again it doesn't have to be perfect We're just pretty much eyeballing it.
This is going to be R6 for the Y.
So this point is basically one six.
All right let's get our second point.
So we have negative 2 and 3.
So x is negative too.
Let me rewrite the points right here.
So the point is basically the X and the y put together separated by a comma and put in parentheses.
That tells you where the point is located and four points x is always the first and then why's the second.
So just like here are points to look like X comma y.
OK so our second point is negative 2 and 3.
So we start always with the X failure because it's negative 2 instead of going to the right.
We're going to go to the left.
So that's 1 2 to the left.
So this right here is negative 2.
And then we're going to go up 3 because or why value is positive 3.
So it's going to be 1 2 3.
So this is three so negative to positive 3.
It's right here.
All right.
And let's do our final value.
Our final point which is 0 5
so X is 0.
That means you start here and you do not move neither laughs nor right you just stay here in terms of
left or right but are y value is five.
That means that even though we're not moving left or right we have to go up by five.
This is three.
And this is six so five should be somewhere around here.
All right.
Notice is actually on top of the y axis which by the way this horizontal line is called the X axis and
this vertical line is called the y axis.
So we have the x axis
and we have the y axis
and the x axis is a horizontal one
and the y axis is a vertical
OK.
So we have three points.
We have negative 2 3 0 5 and 1 6.
So if we try to link these points let's see what happens.
So as you can see there's some sort of pattern because you have a point here and you have a point here
and then you have a point here.
So what if we just drew this line through all the points.
And of course it's supposed to be a straight line as opposed to curve a little like I did.
My drawing is not perfect but you get the idea as you can see here.
This is basically a straight line that goes through all three points.
And this in pink is what we call the graph over function.
So the graph of the function is a visual that satisfy this f of x equals x 5 for all of the domain.
So we only pick three points but you could pick any other point and plug it in here.
And the point is going to be exactly in this graph.
Let me repeat that again.
If you pick any point.
So if you plug in any x value here and you get a point x y and you plug it here it will be on this graph.
OK.
So to prove that to you let's say we pick 5 to plug in.
So we plug in 5.
So our x value is 5 and or Y value is five plus five or 10.
So if we go five to the right and then 10 up notice it'll fall right here.
And the graph as well.
So you might be thinking to yourself well do all graphs look like this.
Are all graphs straight lines.
The answer is definitely no.
Absolutely not all graphs are aligned.
In fact many graphs are actually curves.
So instead of looking like a straight line they actually curve like up and down kind of look like winding
as you go left to right.
So this is a very special type of graph because this function that we tried plugging in this X plus
five is actually what's called a linear function and we'll cover linear functions in a different section.
For now let's keep talking about other types of graphs.
Now of course math is not that easy.
We're all grads or lines.
Like I said you have some graphs that are curves.
For example you have something called and I'm sure you've heard it before a quadratic function.
So a quadratic looks something like this.
A squared plus B X plus C so I actually notice this last part is linear function right.
We're just calling it with different letters B X plus C but we typically call it X plus beat.
All right.
So this last part is the same as a linear function.
The only difference is is quadratic term and it's called quadratic because remember when you hear the
word quadratic it means to the second exponent
quadratic means you know you have something here squared.
OK.
So this is the essence of something that's quadratic squared and the graphs of quadratic functions actually
are called parabolas.
That's a graph of a quadratic function.
How does it look.
Well it's actually a curve.
So we don't have lines anymore.
We actually have curves.
So a parabola can look something like this
OK.
And this one actually opens up but you could have it opening up down if we have another parabola here.
It could look something like this.
So if it opens up we have a lowest point like this one.
And if it opens down you have a highest point like this one point is both of them are parabolas and
they're graphs of quadratic functions.
So there are also other functions.
For example like cubic cubic instead of to the second power means to the third power.
These are
quadratic
and let's do a cubic function
a cubic function looks something like this.
So it's actually a little bit different than a parabola because in the parabola you have a lowest point
or a highest point.
And this cubic function you don't really have a lowest point.
It goes down forever and it goes up forever.
And the important point is that there are actually curves so see how the curve over here is from curves
like this curves like this and let me market for you this is cubic Antz.
Again you could also have any sort of curve you could have some crazy curves.
You know something like this
you could have stuff like this as well.
Something like this.
And then it comes like is going down.
Etc. These two are a quadratic.
This one is Kubic And these are just other
Ok now graphing a linear function is very easy to just pick two points and join them together with a
line.
That's it.
Graphing other functions of higher exponents like quadratic or cubic or the fourth or to the fifth power
is more an art than a science because you can just grab two points and join them together.
So for example if we had grabbed this point in this graph and we had graphed this point if we joined
them together would that really be the graph of this function.
Absolutely not.
It actually looks like this.
If we would have thought it's graphed like a line we would have just joined these two together.
But this is not the graph of the function.
OK.
So we'll actually go more into detail later on and how to graph these sorts of functions and what tricks
we can use.
For now just know that linear functions have a graph of a line and you could have other functions which
are curves which look like this
one point I wanted to mention is that in calculus Robeson's graphs can be really useful in understanding
Bess's metrics.
And not only in calculus or byssus just in business in general.
So if you have numbers for example I'll tell you what the profits are every week.
You can see where the profits are trending upward which is good for the company trending downward which
is bad.
So something needs to be done about it or just being at the same place which probably means as well
that something should be done about it so we can increase profits.
So graphs are part of daily life even though for example you're never going to go into a business thinking
about a specific parabola or maybe look at cubic function where you're going to be thinking about is
OK what does this graph tell me and graphs are great to tell you the behavior of a function.
OK.
So if your profit function looks like this that means that your profits increased up to a certain point
and then it just went down to work word that is not good.
All right.
Assuming this represents profit.
Now if your profits look like this for example.
Well they started going up.
And it kind of went down a little and they went up again down and now they're training upward.
So that's good.
In general grads are always good because they tell you how a function behaves and not only in math but
actually in real business applications.
It tells you how the business is doing.